CSCB58 Project File: Summer 2017

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: David
Last Name: Yue
Student Number: 1003491768
UofT E-mail Address: david.yue@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Crystal
Last Name: Lim
Student Number: 1003416092
UofT E-mail Address: crystal.lim@mail.utoronto.ca


Project Details
---------------
Project Title: Brick Breaker

Project Description:
A game just like ATARI BREAKOUT!


Video URL: 

Code URL (please upload a copy of this file to your repository at the end of the project as well, it will
serve as a useful resource for future development): https://github.com/CoconutJJ/b58Project


Proposal
--------

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the first lab session?:
Understand the Brick Breaker Code and add more bricks

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the second lab session?:
Make sure our code actually works for moving the ceiling down and the moving bricks.
Get started on implementing the score system

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the third lab session?:
Make sure score system works and add Power UPS! Add more balls (perhaps)

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
Scrap all the stuff that doesn't work. If the ceiling implementation doesn't work, make it constantly move down
instead of having it based on the ball not being caught by the paddle.

What hardware will you need beyond the DE2 board 
(be sure to e-mail Brian if it’s anything beyond the basics to make sure there’s enough to go around)
N/A

Motivations
-----------
How does this project relate to the material covered in CSCB58?: 
This project extends the functionality of the brick breaker from previous years.

Original Work: https://github.com/julesyan/CSCB58-Final-Project

Why is this project interesting/cool (for CSCB58 students, and for non CSCB58 students?): 
It's a great game just like Atari Breakout

Why did you personally choose this project?: 
We thought it was a great game and we wanted to add more to it and make more complex.


Attributions
------------
Provide a complete list of any external resources your project used (attributions should also be included in your
code).  

Updates
-------

Week 1 Update: July 7th

After switching plans to extend the brick breaker project from previous years, we've added moving bricks that go left and right. We are planning to add a HI SCORE counter too, however, we are too tired at the moment to add anything else. All programs compile file. Haven't yet tested. It took longer than usual to understand the code in the beginning so we couldn't make sure that we were able to add more bricks properly during the practical session. We worked on adding more bricks and an additional moving brick, a descending ceiling feature and WIN GAME Screen after the practical. The next time we have access to the board we are going to test these new features and make sure they work.


Week 2 Update: July 16th

Added and fully tested hi score counter on the hex display, and previous descending bricks, win game screen, additional bricks and moving brick. During the previous practical, we found some bugs in the game where the ball would pass right through the moving brick and the deleted bricks would colour black over the paddle when it reaches the bottom. After the practical, we tried to fix these bugs, but have yet to test them out. We also added more bricks with different colours and another moving brick, while implementing a powerups feature for each kind of brick. We have not yet tested the powerups.

Week 3 Update: July 23rd

We were not able to book a makerspace session. However, we've added multiple levels to the game and which differ by the speed of the ball. We still need to test whether or not pseudo-random ball bouncing mechanism works or not. We have squashed all the bugs we have seen so far. The powerups and colourful bricks have been confirmed to be working as expected. We are still trying to change the speed the of the ball which appropriate to each level and remaining possible to complete the game. 

